<b>Conversos (Jewish converts to Catholicism) Take Over the Cathedral of Plasencia, Circa 1422</b>

At the opening of the 15th century, transformational events transpired in the Kingdom of Castile and Leon. 

Among the most important were the massive anti-Jewish “pogroms” of the 1390s, the generation of new noble families, and the significant impact of a new Castilian group - Jewish converts to Catholicism (conversos). 

Remarkably, just as anti-Jewish fervour was increasing, so was the power of former Jews (like the Santa Maria family) who aligned themselves with the lower nobility (like the Carvajal family of caballeros/knights).

The quest to capture a cathedral was no small undertaking and it endowed its victors with incredible familial economic opportunities. 

To partake in a church diocese’s opportunities necessitated formal seats on cathedral leadership chapter (for example, archdeaconships) and monopolistic friends. In 1422, Dr. Gil Martínez de Soria weakened the strongest family in the Cathedral of Plasencia - the Fernández - by exposing their corrupt governing practices. 

<nextpage> In the aftermath, the Santa Marías captured the Archdeaconship of Coria and now would sit alongside of the Carvajal clan who recently won the Archdeacon of Plasencia and Béjar. 

To gain cathedral power, these two families needed to decrease the power of its rivals and place even more allies in key positions. 

An opportunity arose with the death of one archdeacon and the appointment of a new one from the Martínez family. This change ended the Fernández family’s influence on the chapter. 

<nextpage> With Dr. Gil Martínez’s cooperation, the new makeup of the chapter fell decidedly into the arms of the family partners. 

In the early 1420s, of the fourteen identified members of the cathedral’s governing chapter, four were Santa Marías, one was a caballero Carvajal, another a caballero Almaraz (intermarried with the Santa Marías and Carvajals), and two were Martínez clansmen. 

<nextpage> Only one Fernández family member remained on the chapter. With a dominant position on the cathedral chapter, this new converso-caballero federation of families secured the bishop’s mitre for Gonzalo García de Santa María in 1424.  

The conversos had taken the cathedral. 


For a more comprehensive discussion of these events, click

<color=blue>http://revealingcooperationandconflict.com</color>

(If you click the link, you will exit Virtual Plasencia and go to the website narrative instead. Are you sure you want to exit now?)