<b> Honey, Bacon, and Taxes: Reaching an Agreement Between the Church and City Council, circa 1428 </b>

In 1428, the city council of Plasencia and the Cathedral of Plasencia agreed to solve a conflict over a perennial issue - the collection of taxes.  

Leading the charge were the Santa María and Carvajal families who were a collaborative group of clans that promoted new collaborations between the knight-dominated city council and the Cathedral of Plasencia’s leadership. 

<nextpage> Previously, the two distinct entities had found cooperation tenuous in light of disagreements over the church-portion of tax collections.  

To ensure better relations between the two parties, the church acquiesced to the city and granted it more authority. 

The initiative involved the Cathedral of Plasencia choosing to lease its share of the portazgo (a toll tax on goods passing through city gates) to the city council in return for a set fee.  

<nextpage> This success was particularly noteworthy because in other Castilian communities, such as Ávila and Ciudad Real, community issues like these often turned into enormous jurisdictional battles. 

In Plasencia, as in other cities in the Kingdom of Castile and Leon, residents were subject to multiple forms of annual taxation.  The most important of these were church taxes on goods and livestock (diezmos), royal sales taxes (alcalaba), and royal toll taxes for goods passing through the city gates (portazgo).
In Plasencia, the portazgo was assessed on a wide assortment of items. <nextpage> Among the named items subject to the toll tax were livestock, honey, olive oil, vinegar, butchered meats, bacon, salted fish, wool, cloth, iron, timber, and glazed tile. In the case of each of these goods, together the city council and cathedral determined a specific tax to be collected for each item. 

For instance, at the lower end of tax assessments, the city and church agreed to levy a tax of one dinero coin for each slab of bacon. 

<nextpage> At the upper end, the city and church collected two maravedis coins for honey of “higher quality” and one maravedis coin for honey of a “lesser quality”. 
With the cathedral-city agreement in place -- honey and bacon were free to flow into Plasencia again.

 
<nextpage> For a more comprehensive discussion of these events, click

<color=blue>http://revealingcooperationandconflict.com</color>

(If you click the link, you will exit Virtual Plasencia and go to the website narrative instead. Are you sure you want to exit now?)