<b>“The Bodies of Fartalo and His Wife”: Open War Among Christians. Jews Caught in the Middle, Circa 1431</b>

In Plasencia during the 1420s the city council and the Cathedral of Plasencia served as the de facto local secular and ecclesiastical authorities in the region surrounding the city of Plasencia. 

Often, their jurisdictional and taxation authority was challenged by regional lords that only answered to the king, such as the Señor de Oropesa (the Álvarez de Toledo family) and the Señor de Valverde (the Niño family).  

<nextpage> When local city councils and local lords could not agree on how to balance the needs of these jurisdictions, the king’s supreme authority was required to settle disputes. 

During the late 1420s, at a time when the Santa María and Carvajal families were the most powerful families in the city of Plasencia, the Señor de Oropesa and the Señor de Valverde challenged their economic and political power bases. 

<nextpage> The villages neighboring Plasencia were at the heart of the conflict as these Señores disputed the traditionally recognized jurisdiction of the city council over its neighboring villages. 

What ensued was a fierce regional conflict over natural resources (grazing, fishing, and agricultural rights), taxation, and secular leadership in the region.

In particular, Christian commoners and religious minorities such as Jews often found themselves trapped in the mechanics of these conflicts. 

<nextpage> For example, Rabbi Abraham de Loya of Plasencia was taken captive and singled out for harsher treatment when his hands were not bound, but instead “shackled in chains”. 

Although the rabbi survived, two of his coreligionists were not as fortunate. The sheepherders Juan and Pascual Sánchez of Tornavacas reported they had seen men transporting the “bodies of Fartalo and his wife”, both Jews from Plasencia, to the village of Oropesa (the location of the Señor de Oropesa’s castle). Eventually, although the Carvajal-Santa María confederation would effectively resolve jurisdictional hurdle in 1431, it was not a permanent solution. 

The Señor de Oropesa and Señor de Valverde had proved worthy adversaries of the confederated families, but they would be insignificant in comparison to the Estúñiga family, who the king made the Condes de Plasencia (the Counts of Plasencia) in 1441. 

When the Estúñiga family assumed this new role - the ultimate secular authority in Plasencia - it was if the enemy had breached the gates. 

<nextpage> For a more comprehensive discussion of these events, click

<color=blue>http://revealingcooperationandconflict.com</color>

(If you click the link, you will exit Virtual Plasencia and go to the website narrative instead. Are you sure you want to exit now?)