<b>A Multi-Faith Endeavor: Vineyards and Winemaking, Circa 1390-1492</b>

Winemaking was a perennial interest of Jews, Christians, and even, Muslims. 

Even though Muslims were prescribed from drinking wine by the Qur’an, this did not prevent some of the Extremaduran (an ethnic group living in Extremadura, between the center and the south-west of Spain) Muslim families of Plasencia from owning, renting, and managing their own production of wine. 

<nextpage> Church records from 1414 show that Muslims were involved in winemaking, as well as other religious groups. 

For example, this document mentions that a Christian, Alfonso Fernandez Alfagerme, assumed the lease of a vineyard known as “La Salgada”. The vineyard was surrounded by a cluster of other vineyards owned by Marta Fernandez, Juan Gutierrez, and lastly, a Muslim individual referred to as “Ali”. Ali’s vineyard carried a distinct name, “El Caballo”, or “the horse”.
 
<nextpage> In a detailed 1443 listing of vineyards in the vicinity of the village of Trujillo (just 80 kilometers to the south of Plasencia) we notice that Muslim leases were a part of family tradition of winemaking. 

At the periphery of Trujillo, the Cathedral of Plasencia first leased lands with grapevines to Mahomet del Corral, and after his agreement expired (or was not renewed), his brother Aiza Luengo, took on the property.

As in the prior example of La Salgada, these wine-producing lands were adjacent to a community of vineyards one of which was rented by Alonso Martinez Lucero, a Christian, and another by Omat Sillero, a Muslim.

Jewish families also participated in the wine tradition of the region, but apparently, to a lesser extent as they were represented more thoroughly in local urban trades. With the Edict of Expulsion of 1492, all Jews were forced leave territorial Spain. 

They were required to sell their real property and they faced limitations in terms of the personal property and coinage they could take with them. 

<nextpage> In the Edict of 1492 several Jewish families can be identified as vineyard owners. 


For a more comprehensive discussion of these events, click

<color=blue>http://revealingcooperationandconflict.com</color>

(If you click the link, you will exit Virtual Plasencia and go to the website narrative instead. Are you sure you want to exit now?)