<b>Laying A Knight to Rest: Caballero Diego Gonzalez de Carvajal, circa 1455</b>

In the late 1390s, the knight Diego Gonzalez de Carvajal was a young man and likely just entering his third decade of life; his lineage and family connections suggested he had a promising and prosperous life ahead of him.  

He was the son of a well-established caballero (knight) in Plasencia and the son-in-law of Comendador (Knight Commander) Diego Garcia de Ulloa, a leader of knights in Aldeanueva.   
 
<nextpage> Diego Gonzalez de Carvajal wrote his testament gives in 1455, a few years before his death. 

The testament gives one the impression of a very wealthy man who bequeathed over 62,000 maravedis (silver coins) in money to heirs, and one who owned an extensive housing complex, with its own “palacio”, on the main plaza in the city of Plasencia in addition to a varied portfolio of properties in the vicinity, including twenty-three stables, several vineyards, an income-generating grain mill, and over two-dozen other houses and lands.  

<nextpage> To appreciate the value of 62,000 maravedis, consider that the average salary of a church canon was just 185 maravedis a year.

The testament also makes clear that, because Diego Gonzalez de Carvajal had married three times, he was worried about the distribution of his wealth to no less than twelve children by his three wives. 

In fact, the proper distribution of inheritance and returning what each spouse had brought to their marriage was a big concern. 

<nextpage> In a telling example, Diego willed, “And because...Teresa Rodriguez, my wife, brought and gave to me a small amount of silver that I had made into a rounded embellishment with the figure of a pine tree for my sword, I will that it be for the said Teresa…because it was made with her silver.” 

In this way, a wealthy knight struggled to settle his last affairs. 


For a more comprehensive discussion of these events, click

<color=blue>http://revealingcooperationandconflict.com</color>

(If you click the link, you will exit Virtual Plasencia and go to the website narrative instead. Are you sure you want to exit now?)