<b>The Not-so-Jewish “Juderia” of Plasencia: Home to Knights, Churchmen, and Jews, Circa 1424-1446</b>

Prior to end the fifteenth century, the Jewish quarter in the southwest section of Plasencia was the most religiously and socially diverse in the city.

The Jews constituted forty-two percent (42%) of the total population in Plasencia and the impact of the ratio of population figures is reflected in how the leaders of this community, specifically the Cathedral of Plasencia’s ecclesiastical leadership, 
<nextpage> chose a path of cultural inclusion during the mid-fifteenth century.
(See “Historical Background” by visiting the communal fountain in the Plaza de San Nicolas). 

For example, Bishop Gonzalo García de Santa María (tenure 1424-1446), himself a Jewish convert to Catholicism, significantly increased access to housing leases for Jewish and Muslim families. 

While the former church leadership only leased four percent (4%) of church houses to religious minorities, the bishop-convert and his functionaries directed twenty-two percent (22%) of all leases to Jews and Muslims. This amounted to an almost six-fold increase in access for Jewish and Muslim tenants.
 
Typically, the cathedral’s Jewish and Muslim tenants were tradesmen, as opposed to religious leaders like Plasencia’s rabbis who tended to live in Jewish-owned homes. 

The cathedral’s clients included a Muslim family of tailors (the Chicala family), as well as Jewish shoemakers (the Aruso family), clothing-shearers (the Caces/González families ), blacksmiths (the Arrañon family), and military arms makers (the Capas family). 

<nextpage> The church’s decision to lease property in greater numbers to Jews and Muslims in Plasencia indicates that they were inclined to support the traditional approach of peaceful co-existence of the three faiths. 


For a more comprehensive discussion of these events, click

<color=blue>http://revealingcooperationandconflict.com</color>

(If you click the link, you will exit Virtual Plasencia and go to the website narrative instead. Are you sure you want to exit now?)