<b>“The Great Malice of Our Times”, Circa 1441-1444</b>

The city of Plasencia enjoyed the benefits of a city charter (fuero), in which the King of Castile and Leon established the rights and privileges of the city. 

The “great malice” (1441-1488) was the naming of a new lord over the city and his attempts to force the cathedral and city to yield to his rule. Thus, in December of 1441, King Juan II appointed Pedro de Estúñiga as Condes de Plasencia (Counts of Plasencia). 

<nextpage> The king expected the Cathedral of Plasencia and the city council to receive Pedro as their new lord in spite of the customary privileges the city exercised through the city charter. 

Further, the king authorized the count to assume all “peripheral lands, tribute taxes, notary fees, trade taxes, rents, and all rights over the city.”
 
<nextpage> Consequently, the year 1441 brought the rapid expansion of the Estúñiga family into the affairs of the city of Plasencia, and with their arrival, they planted the seeds for a forty-year conflict with the Carvajal and Santa María families who governed the Cathedral of Plasencia. (The Palacio de los Mirabeles, pictured in Virtual Plasencia, was the count’s residence). 

The Estúñiga’s new palace was adjacent to the synagogue and the Jewish homes at the heart of the Jewish quarter.

<nextpage> As the counts settled into Plasencia, both churchmen and city councilmen alike described their relationship with their new lord as follows: “The conflict, hatred, and ill will that exist now are a sign of the great malice of our times.”
 
Just as the king had the power to appoint so the king had the power to take it back. 

In 1488 the Carvajal family managed to eject the Condes de Plasencia (Counts of Plasencia) from the city at the request of King Ferdinand and Queen Isabel and restored the city to direct royal rule. 

<nextpage> Nonetheless, in the forty-seven years of Estúñiga’s governance (1441 to 1488), it was primarily the Carvajal and Santa María families that would consistently test the limits of the count’s authority until 1488 when they effectively put an end to the count’s power. 


For a more comprehensive discussion of these events, click

<color=blue>http://revealingcooperationandconflict.com</color>

(If you click the link, you will exit Virtual Plasencia and go to the website narrative instead. Are you sure you want to exit now?)