<b>The Strange Bedfellows Alliance: Catholic Archdeacons, Knights, Rabbis, and Jewish Community Members Conspire Against the Count of Plasencia, Circa 1442</b>

During the late 1420s, the Santa María and Carvajal families were the most powerful families in the city of Plasencia. 

Among those families that challenged their economic and political power bases were the Estúñigas, who the King of Castile and Leon would appoint as the Condes de Plasencia (Counts of Plasencia) in 1441. 

<nextpage> To counteract the power of the king-appointed Estúñiga family, the Santa María and Carvajal families resorted to using the power of the local bishop, who happened to be a Santa María himself.
 
During Gonzalo García de Santa María’s term as bishop (1424-1445), the local knight and church families used a combination of personal wealth, church authority, and church statutes to block Count Pedro de Estúñiga’s attempt to solidify control over the region and its inhabitants at the opening of the 1440s. 

<nextpage> Jewish inhabitants were especially threatened by the aggressive and predatory property purchases made by the Estúñigas within the Jewish quarter. 

It is significant that the Estúñiga’s new palace (the Palacio de los Mirabeles) was adjacent to the synagogue and the Jewish homes of the Jewish quarter. 
 
Previous to the count’s arrival, the Carvajal and Santa María families used their control over the Cathedral of Plasencia to oversee Plasencia’s Jewish population.  

<nextpage> To protect themselves and some Jewish families from the Estúñigas, the allied clans transferred ownership of strategically located Jewish real estate to the Carvajal family. 

In this way, the Cathedral of Plasencia had found a novel manner to intervene in the Conde de Plasencia’s (Count of Plasencia) direct rule of his Jewish subjects.  


For a more comprehensive discussion of these events, click

<color=blue>http://revealingcooperationandconflict.com</color>

(If you click the link, you will exit Virtual Plasencia and go to the website narrative instead. Are you sure you want to exit now?)